The Blank Page Blues

I've been there many times - staring at the page, feeling like all my words are trapped in a tiny glass jar and I have no way of getting them out.

Writing is hard work. It's not just sitting down and spilling your thoughts onto paper (or screen). Writing is thinking, analyzing, questioning, and reflecting on your ideas and emotions. And sometimes that process can be overwhelming.

It's like trying to take a picture of the sky without having any context about what it looks like outside. It's easy to feel lost when you have no idea where to start or how to get going.

Here are a few things I've learned along my writing journey:

1) Write anyway

I know, I know - this is easier said than done. Sometimes, we just need to push through the initial resistance and write something, anything. Even if it's a sentence that says nothing. It can be hard to get going but once you start, you might find some momentum.

2) Give yourself permission to suck

You're not trying to publish your work or win an award. You're writing for you. So, let go of the need to be perfect and just write something terrible if that's what it takes. I promise no one will judge you (or if they do, ignore them).

3) Get out of your head

I know this sounds a little strange - but sometimes getting out of your head can help you get unstuck. Take a walk, go for a run, or put on your favorite music and dance around the room. This can give you some space to think outside your normal routine.

4) Ask someone else (or even yourself) questions

Sometimes asking myself questions about my writing helps me get back on track. What am I trying to say? Who is this story for? What's the main point of this book or essay?

5) Take a break and come back later

It might sound silly, but sometimes taking a break from your work can be beneficial. Come back when you're feeling refreshed and may find that your ideas are more clear.

6) Write something else

I know it sounds like cheating - but if I get stuck on one writing project or book, I often start working on something else. It's amazing how the energy of a new project can help unstick me from the original one.

7) Make a list of all the things you love about your subject and then try to write something

You know how sometimes when we think of something negative it can make us feel stuck? I do! But if I start making lists of everything I love about my writing topic, it helps me focus on why I'm doing this in the first place.

8) Write for 10 minutes a day

This is called "morning pages" and it's a great way to build momentum. Even just 10 minutes a day can help you make progress.

9) Read something else

Sometimes getting stuck can come from having too much time on your hands. If I'm not writing, I need to do something else - like reading! Reading other people's work can be super helpful for sparking inspiration and ideas.

10) Just write

This one is simple. Sometimes you just have to start moving forward again, even if it feels hard or silly.

And that's it!

I hope some of these suggestions help you out when you're feeling stuck.

Happy writing