There's a photo on my Pinterest board from 2017 that still makes me smile every time I see it.

A few days after moving into our first apartment together, Jon and I had been brainstorming ways to fill the blank canvas walls (there were three of them - one in the living room, and two in the bedroom). He was working on a project at the time, and I was feeling very inspired. We ended up creating this beautiful, abstract mural using paint, stencils, and even some glitter. It felt like we had created something truly special together.

Fast forward to 2019 - Jon was laid off from his job of three years (he was one of only a handful at the time). I remember him coming home after a few days of applying to jobs left and right, saying "I don't think I'm going to get another one." It felt like my whole world had been turned upside down.

It wasn't easy for me - I had always wanted Jon to be successful in his field. When it became clear he wouldn't be able to find work there, I knew I needed to let go of the dream we had built together (and in our apartment). We would have to start all over again.

It's funny that when you're thinking about something new, you can get so caught up in what it will look like and feel like. You don't realize how much a part of who you are is tied up in the old thing until it's gone.

I remember one day in particular - we were having dinner, and I asked Jon if he wanted to start a garden in our backyard. He said yes! In that moment, I realized that just because something wasn't working out for us, didn't mean that it was bad. It just meant we needed to let go so we could make room for something new.

And then there were the little moments when Jon would get an interview or start exploring a new field - and I'd think to myself, "Oh no! What if he doesn't get this one?" But as time went on, I realized that every disappointment brought us closer to what we really wanted. It wasn't always easy, but it was worth the struggle.

The mural in our living room has faded a bit over the years - Jon repainted the walls last year and now it's mostly just a memory for me. But sometimes when I'm scrolling through Pinterest (it happened again this morning!), that photo comes up, and I feel such gratitude for what we built together.

And if you ever find yourself in a similar situation, know that letting go doesn't mean giving up - but surrendering to your next chapter. It's okay to move on and make room for the new things coming into your life.