I love you, writer's block! You're that pesky little voice that shows up when I'm feeling uncertain and unsure of what the heck I'm doing.

And for me, it was especially strong in my early writing days. I would read something, then immediately think, "This is how it should be done." And then, with a newfound sense of clarity (aka arrogance), I'd try to write like this person - but without all their experience and skill.

Then came the first draft. The one that was going to change everything.

Or so I thought.

I sent my work out into the world and waited for validation - or rejection. And either way, it felt like a slap in the face. "This isn't good enough," the voices said.

But then something shifted inside me. I had a series of little epiphanies about intuition that changed how I saw writing and myself as a writer.

My first big insight was that I couldn't trust my words if I didn't trust my gut.

I realized that when I felt like something wasn't right, it wasn't because the other person's writing was better (which is what I used to tell myself), but because mine wasn't aligned with what I truly wanted.

Intuition is your inner voice. It's not the same as inspiration or instinct - which are things you can see and hear in others' work and even feel when reading someone else's words. But intuition is something different. You can trust it, if you listen to it. And the more you do this, the better you get at tuning into what your gut is telling you.

It takes time and practice (and I mean a lot of practice) but eventually, I learned to trust my gut when it came to writing.

I've worked with plenty of writers who are stuck in a similar spot. They're comparing their writing to someone else's - or even their own past work. And they wonder why they can't get out of the rut. They wonder if they're good enough, smart enough, creative enough (enough! enough!).

But I tell them this: your gut is like your intuition. It might feel uncertain and untrustworthy at first, but it's actually a powerful guide that will show you what's true for you.

And once you start listening to your intuition - really listening - you'll begin to trust yourself more and more.

You'll be able to say no to things that don't feel right (like writing like someone else) and yes to the things that feel good. And when you do, you might just find that you're making some of the most authentic work of your life.

And I think this is where we get to a key part of writing: trusting ourselves.

When we trust our intuition - which includes our gut feelings about what works for us and what doesn't - we can write with freedom. Freedom from the external pressure of trying to be like someone else, or even our own past self. When I think about my best writing experiences, they were always ones where I could let go and just write. No thinking, no overthinking.

It's not that your gut will lead you down a path that feels right for everyone. It's that it will guide you toward what is true and authentic for you - which means sometimes taking the road less traveled. Sometimes writing about things that feel scary or vulnerable or hard to say out loud.

And when I write from that place, I find that my words are always more honest and raw than anything else I've ever written. And it's because I'm letting my intuition guide me instead of trying to control every step along the way.

Intuition is a wild card - but one you can trust.